The project titled “Implementation of Antivirus using C++” is an application developed to prevent or detect malware. In today’s world, the one word that can strike fear in the heart of any computer user, especially the one who accesses the internet or exchanges diskettes is the word “VIRUS”. These viruses can generate so much fear in the cyber world that the news of a new virus often spreads faster than the virus itself. This application deals primarily with the security of the computer as well as mobile files by securing the files from virus attacks and checking a particular file for virus. It deletes all viruses form existing system and therefore makes the system more efficient and fast. This is the best way for scanning for viruses in our systems rather than purchasing external antiviruses from market. Having an antivirus application installed in our system for free is always better than paying for one. Antivirus software scans the file comparing specific bits of code against information in its database and if it finds a pattern duplicating one in the database, it is considered a virus, and it will quarantine or delete that particular file. The above mention application uses the signature-based detection which is the most common form of detection that checks all the .EXE files and validates it with the known list of viruses and other types of malware or it checks if the unknown executable files show any misbehavior as a sign of unknown viruses. Files, programs and applications are basically scanned when they in use. Once an executable file is downloaded it is scanned for any malware instantly. Antivirus software can also be used without the background on access scanning, but it is always advisable to use on access scanning because it is complex to remove malware once it infects your system.
